https://ccna-200-301.online/ccna-2/
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TeorÃ­a: 1 Basic Device Configuration
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mon 01 Jan 2024 04:19:29 PM -05

1.1 Configre a Switch with Initial Settings

Switch Boot Sequence

After a Cisco switch is powered on, it goes through the following five-step boot
sequence:

Step 1: First, the switch loads a power-on self-test (POST) program stored in
ROM. POST checks the CPU subsystem. It tests the CPU, DRAM, and the portion of
the flash device that makes up the flash file system.

Step 2: Next, the switch loads the boot loader software. The boot loader is a
small program stored in ROM that is run immediately after POST successfully
completes.

Step 3: The boot loader performs low-level CPU initialization. It initializes
the CPU registers, which control where physical memory is mapped, the quantity
of memory, and its speed.

Step 4: The boot loader initializes the flash file system on the system board.

Step 5: Finally, the boot loader locates and loads a default IOS operating
system software image into memory and gives control of the switch over to the
IOS.

# show boot -> see what the current IOS boot file is set to.

# boot system [path] -> set the boot system global.

(config)# boot system flash:/c2960-lanbasek9-mz.150-2.SE/c9-mz.150-2.SE.bin

boot system                      -> The main command
flash:                           -> The storage device
c2960-lanbasek9-mz.150-2.SE/     -> The path to the file system
c2960-lanbasek9-mz.150-2.SE.bin  -> The IOS file name 

Switch LED Indicators

System LED
Shows whether the system is receiving power and is functioning properly. If the
LED is off, it means the system is not powered on. If the LED is green, the
system is operating normally. If the LED is amber, the system is receiving power
but is not functioning properly.

Redundant Power System (RPS) LED
Shows the RPS status. If the LED is off, the RPS is off, or it is not properly
connected. If the LED is green, the RPS is connected and ready to provide backup
power. If the LED is blinking green, the RPS is connected but is unavailable
because it is providing power to another device. If the LED is amber, the RPS is
in standby mode, or in a fault condition. If the LED is blinking amber, the
internal power supply in the switch has failed, and the RPS is providing
power.

Port Status LED
Indicates that the port status mode is selected when the LED is green. This is
the default mode. When selected, the port LEDs will display colors with
different meanings. If the LED is off, there is no link, or the port was
administratively shut down. If the LED is green, a link is present. If the LED
is blinking green, there is activity and the port is sending or receiving data.
If the LED is alternating green-amber, there is a link fault. If the LED is
amber, the port is blocked to ensure that a loop does not exist in the
forwarding domain and is not forwarding data (typically, ports will remain in
this state for the first 30 seconds after being activated). If the LED is
blinking amber, the port is blocked to prevent a possible loop in the forwarding
domain.

Port Duplex LED
Indicates that the port duplex mode is selected when the LED is green. When
selected, port LEDs that are off are in half-duplex mode. If the port LED is
green, the port is in full-duplex mode.

Port Speed LED
Indicates that the port speed mode is selected. When selected, the port LEDs
will display colors with different meanings. If the LED is off, the port is
operating at 10 Mbps. If the LED is green, the port is operating at 100 Mbps. If
the LED is blinking green, the port is operating at 1000 Mbps.

Power over Ethernet (PoE) Mode LED
If PoE is supported, a PoE mode LED will be present. If the LED is off, it
indicates the PoE mode is not selected and that none of the ports have been
denied power or placed in a fault condition. If the LED is blinking amber, the
PoE mode is not selected but at least one of the ports has been denied power or
has a PoE fault. If the LED is green, it indicates the PoE mode is selected and
the port LEDs will display colors with different meanings. If the port LED is
off, the PoE is off. If the port LED is green, the PoE is on. If the port LED is
alternating green-amber, PoE is denied because providing power to the powered
device will exceed the switch power capacity. If the LED is blinking amber, PoE
is off because of a fault. If the LED is amber, PoE for the port has been
disabled.

Recovering from a System Crash

The boot loader provides access into the switch if the operating system cannot
be used because of missing or damaged system files. The boot loader has a
command-line that provides access to the files stored in flash memory.

: set -> view the path of the switch BOOT environment variable.

:flash_init -> view the current files in flash.

: dir flash -> view the directories and files in flash.

: BOOT=flash:[path] -> change the BOOT environment variable.

: boot -> Load the new IOS type.

The boot loader commands support initializing flash, formatting flash,
installing a new IOS, changing the BOOT environment variable and recovery of
lost or forgotten passwords.

Switch Management Access
To prepare a switch for remote management access, the switch must be configured
with an IP address and a subnet mask. Keep in mind that to manage the switch
from a remote network, the switch must be configured with a default gateway.
This is very similar to configuring the IP address information on host devices.
In the figure, the switch virtual interface (SVI) on S1 should be assigned an IP
address. The SVI is a virtual interface, not a physical port on the switch. A
console cable is used to connect to a PC so that the switch can be initially
configured.

Switch SVI Configuration
By default, the switch is configured to have its management controlled through
VLAN 1. All ports are assigned to VLAN 1 by default. For security purposes, it
is considered a best practice to use a VLAN other than VLAN 1 for the management
VLAN, such as VLAN 99 in the example.

1.2 Configure Switch Ports

